     my uncle -- high ideals inspire him;
     but when past joking he fell sick,
     he really forced one to admire him --
     and never played a shrewder trick.
     let others learn from his example!
     but God, how deadly dull to sample
     sickroom attendance night and day
     and never stir a foot away!
     and the sly baseness, fit to throttle,
     of entertaining the half-dead:
     one smoothes the pillows down in bed,
     and glumly serves the medicine bottle,
     and sighs, and asks oneself all through:
     when will the devil come for you?
     such were a young rake's meditations --
     by will of Zeus, the high and just,
     the legatee of his relations --
     as horses whirled him through the dust.
     friends of my Ruslan and Lyudmila,
     without preliminary feeler
     let me acquaint you on the nail
     with this the hero of my tale:
     onegin, my good friend, was littered
     and bred upon the Neva's brink,
     where you were born as well, I think,
     reader, or where you've shone and glittered!
     there once I too strolled back and forth:
     but I'm allergic to the North...
     after a fine career, his father
     had only debts on which to live.
     he gave three balls a year, and rather
     promptly had nothing left to give.
     fate saved Evgeny from perdition:
     at first Madame gave him tuition,
     from her Monsieur took on the child.
     he was sweet-natured, and yet wild.
     monsieur l'Abbé, the mediocre,
     reluctant to exhaust the boy,
     treated his lessons as a ploy.
     no moralizing from this joker;
     a mild rebuke was his worst mark,
     and then a stroll in Letny Park.
     but when the hour of youthful passion
     struck for Evgeny, with its play
     of hope and gloom, romantic-fashion,
     it was goodbye, Monsieur l'Abbé.
     eugene was free, and as a dresser
     made London's dandy his professor.
     his hair was fashionably curled,
     and now at last he saw the World.
     in French Onegin had perfected
     proficiency to speak and write,
     in the mazurka he was light,
     his bow was wholly unaffected.
     the World found this enough to treat
     eugene as clever, and quite sweet.
     we all meandered through our schooling
     haphazard; so, to God be thanks,
     it's easy, without too much fooling,
     to pass for cultured in our ranks.
     onegin was assessed by many
     critical judges, strict as any
     as well-read, though of pedant cast.
     unforced, as conversation passed,
     he had the talent of saluting
     felicitously every theme,
     of listening like a judge-supreme
     while serious topics were disputing,
     or, with an epigram-surprise,
     of kindling smiles in ladies' eyes.
     now Latin's gone quite out of favour;
     yet, truthfully and not in chaff,
     onegin knew enough to savour
     the meaning of an epigraph,
     make Juvenal his text, or better
     add vale when he signed a letter;
     stumblingly call to mind he did
     two verses of the Aeneid.
     he lacked the slightest predilection
     for raking up historic dust
     or stirring annalistic must;
     but groomed an anecdote-collection
     that stretched from Romulus in his prime
     across the years to our own time.
     he was without that dithyrambic
     frenzy which wrecks our lives for sound,
     and telling trochee from iambic
     was quite beyond his wit, we found.
     he cursed Theocritus and Homer,
     in Adam Smith was his diploma;
     our deep economist had got
     the gift of recognizing what
     a nation's wealth is, what augments it,
     and how a country lives, and why
     it needs no gold if a supply
     of simple product supplements it.
     his father failed to understand
     and took a mortgage on his land.
     evgeny's total store of knowledge
     i have no leisure to recall;
     where he was master of his college,
     the art he'd studied best of all,
     his young heyday's supreme employment,
     its work, its torture, its enjoyment,
     what occupied his chafing powers
     throughout the boredom of the hours --
     this was the science of that passion
     which Ovid sang, for which the bard,
     condemned to a lifetime of hard,
     ended his wild career of fashion
     deep in Moldavia the abhorred,
     far, far from Italy, his adored.